More than 13 trillion dollars in
purchases crossed your networks in 2024.
That's what, like three times the size
of Japan's GDP. How many transactions
have crossed your networks, let's say,
in the past minute?
>> We can do up to 85,000
transactions per second. It depends on
the day, the hour. It fluctuates, but
you can think of it on average about
10,000 or so per second. So that was
10,000 right there. another 10,000 right
now. And that obligation weighs heavily
on us to make sure it is always on,
secure, reliable, and and trustworthy.
>> This week on Bold Names, Rajat Teneasia,
president of technology at Visa.
>> Yeah, ma'am. Two big topics that are
going on in the payment space right now.
But we wanted to talk to him about the
rise of cryptocurrency and of course
artificial intelligence. So we've got
programmable money and programmable
shoppers. So Visa, arguably the world's
biggest middleman, is getting into
stable coins, that digital alternative
to conventional money. Also working on
how AI is going to disrupt how we shop,
hopefully for the better. All that and
more this week with Rajat.
Rajat, thank you for joining us. I want
to start with this idea of Visa as a
technology company. I think most people
would of course identify you with your
cards. They would identify you as a
payment network. Um but why are you
looking to change that perception?
>> Well, we are the original tech company,
right? Think of us as a hyperscaler
in the money movement and the payments
business.
>> So hyperscaler being like one of the big
cloud providers like Google,
>> correct? So if you look at the big
hyperscalers, you see them pro providing
infrastructure as a service, platform as
a service, allowing us various companies
to run software as a service and we are
that full stack for the payments and
money movement business.
>> So you think of yourself as a
hyperscaler for money.
>> I think that's a very good way to
characterize it for sure. If you look at
Visa uh on our foundation infrastructure
is global connectivity.
uh it is our network visa and it is what
we offer to connect network of networks
so that's the foundation on top of this
that foundation our infrastructure is
our services I'll give you an example it
could be your credentials tokens could
be authentication services risk services
fraud services on top of that layer
comes our solution layer so here we take
these components componentized
capabilities from the services layer and
create new end-to-end solutions and
features. We have products that we call
Visa accept and Visa Pay that allows
anybody with a phone uh and a credential
to be able to either accept payments as
a seller or to pay a seller without
needing the massive infrastructure that
is traditionally needed.
>> But why this transition now, right? I
mean, what pressures are you feeling on
your core card business that move you to
want to redefine yourself in this way?
>> We're not really redefining ourselves.
It's what we've always been. But what we
have been doing in the last 10 years or
so is we have been opening up our
network in new and unique ways to extend
it uh to allow a lot more innovation on
top of our network to go from being a
pure network to being a network of
networks. Um and therefore having
different layers that can support new
and unique forms of commerce.
>> Right. One thing that we're hearing a
lot more about uh is digital currencies.
You've shifted in some ways to support
digital currencies. What is the macro
shift that we're seeing here in finance
that's moving you to do that?
>> So digital currencies is a large
umbrella term, right? When you are using
a card, whether it's a credit or a debit
or a prepaid or even if you want to pay
in installments, you're using a form of
digital currency to make that payment.
either paying ahead, paying now, paying
later. But I think what's happening now
is that's being extended with additional
capabilities like stable coins. And
there are certain use cases in which
stable coins are really helpful. Um
they're useful when somebody wants to
own asset in US dollar let's say and
they don't have access to it or if their
local fiat currency is very volatile or
um some cases of crossber payments and
very fast settlements
>> and let me interrupt you there because I
think a lot of folks are not familiar
with stable coins but a stable coin as I
understand it and correct me if I'm
wrong it is a uh it's a token on a
blockchain so it's technically a cryptoc
currency. Most stable coins of course
are dollar denominated and it means that
the company that issues the stable coin
if it issues one stable coin it has to
be holding about a dollar in its
reserves. Right. So you're saying that
you're not issuing stable coins but
you're giving people new ways to
transact in stable coins. Is that right?
>> That's correct. So if you think about
the stack uh in layers, you have the
foundational technology stack, the
blockchain uh layer if you will, and
that has to be very robust and that has
to be able to create and mint the stable
coin and transact it. But then on top of
that, as you just pointed out, you need
the reserve layer where you have the
backed stable coin with with currency
like in the this case the example you
were saying was US dollars. But there's
a third layer that's very important as
well on top of these two which is what
we call the uh interface layer. Uh
because you have to be able to go from a
closed loop to an open loop to really
scale the technology and its value scale
to billions of endpoints. uh make sure
that com compliance and rules and
regulations of every country are met and
you're able to have on and off ramps uh
into let's say a credit um credential or
other credentials and that's so that's
where we come in. Let's let's take a
step back here for a second. So
ultimately what is Visa's kind of goal
when it comes to crypto? How does it
factor into the company's kind of kind
of global growth strategy?
So our our mission uh if you will and
it's a beautiful mission is to uplift
everyone everywhere by being the best
way to pay and be paid and certainly a
core of our business is the various
credentials we provide uh and process
but as you sort of look at crossber
business payments for example or a
person-toperson payments or or in new
and unique um use cases there are
various new aspects of payments that are
going to take birth. And our platform
provides the underlying capability that
allows trust uh and allows privacy and
it allows compliance. It allows security
in a number of resilience uh to to
underpin uh these new forms of digital
payments.
>> I mean, let's talk about how that plays
out in practice, right? So um this
spring you announced a partnership with
the startup bridge to offer a stablecoin
linked Visa card to customers.
>> Yeah.
>> So how does that partnership work
exactly between you and the startup and
then also for consumers?
>> Look the the way it works is that you
need uh stable coin card programs. You
need a card program uh the ability to uh
move from fiat into stable coin and back
into fiat. That's what the bridge
partnership allows. And we have about
135 stable coin card programs worldwide.
Um we are building these in over 40
countries right now. And uh it you're
able to access this uh in uh several
with several merchants and it's it's
growing part uh of our um of our
technology stack and partnerships. So I
mean just to put a fine point on it, you
are becoming a platform on which people
can transact in everything including
cryptocurrency.
But it feels like part of the reason
you're doing that is you must be feeling
some potential disruptive pressure from
stable coins from competing payment
networks. I mean let's be real. The
whole reason that a lot of people have
created many of these cryptocurrency
networks is explicitly to disrupt you to
uh charge merchants lower fees to charge
lower fees for um you know transactions
across borders. Do you feel like there's
any uh potential disruptive threat? Is
that part of what's driving you opening
up this network and turning yourself
into this kind of modularized almost
like Amazon web services but for money?
>> It's an evolution, right? It it's an
evolution of a platform. So, and if you
look at many platforms, they were
initially built for a particular
purpose. They grew, they created very
compelling capabilities for that purpose
and then they expanded it horizontally
to serve their consumers in new and
unique ways. And so the northstar for us
is our mission which I mentioned is
about alloying and helping and uplifting
everyone everywhere by being the best
way to pay and be paid. And there are
different ways to pay and be paid in the
future. When the internet uh was born
and e-commerce uh took birth, uh there
was a lot of concern by everybody to
enter card numbers uh and it almost
didn't take off. And then
[clears throat] Visa's face-to-face
payment that we had perfected allowed us
to bring that to bear uh and create a
secure and trustworthy environment where
e-commerce could flourish and then that
grew to include mobile transactions with
tokenized credentials. Now the
generative AI era is giving birth to
agentic commerce. So we're going from
e-commerce to a commerce and we have to
again reinvent how that trust that was
built for face toface then went to
e-commerce then went to mobile commerce
can bring this new beautiful ways of
agentic commerce to thrive where you can
have hyperpersonalization hypertailored
experiences
with an agent helping do things for you
that are very mundane and timeconuming
and not enjoyable and bring the joys and
pleasures and happiness of shopping to
you in different ways. So that's all
extensions of the software and the
system.
>> Yeah, I really want to get into that
because [clears throat] let's maybe just
put a pin in crypto for a moment and
really just dive into AI and how you see
this. I mean Visa, I think has long been
involved with AI, right? Whether it's
fraud protection or security over the
years, putting you on the forefront of
this technology as we see kind of the
next evolution of it. And when you say
agentic a or you talk about agents,
you're talking about AI working as the
consumer going out and doing things,
right? So how how do you imagine this
world? Why would people why would your
customers want to use AI agents to make
purchases? Isn't that kind of taking the
fun out of shopping?
I think there are lots of things today
that are not fun that are mundane. Uh
shopping and there's buying new shoes or
buying new sneakers and then there's
what? Paying your bills. I mean what
what what is not fun about shopping?
>> Uh Timmy exactly paying your bills,
subscription management, cancelling
subscriptions, price matching,
registrations,
warranties. U there's so many aspects
getting the best deals. So even though
payments have become increasingly easier
over time, um the actual shopping
experience is still in the hunt and peck
era. We have a lot of burden on
ourselves as consumers to go find what
we want, make sure it is the right
thing, what what we would like really
like to get. And so agentic commerce
allows us to have software or in the
future it could be a hardware
manifestation that understands us. stop.
>> What would be something in your
day-to-day life you wish you had an
agent that could go out and buy for you
or help you buy?
>> I mean, so many different things. If if
you if you're buying u new bike, let's
say, and there are thousands of
different kinds of bikes and
technologies and gears, and I was buying
one for my for my kid the other day, and
I'm not an expert in bikes, and I'm
trying to understand all of these to get
the safest bike that would allow my
child to go to school and back. Now all
that research which I would have had to
do or a consumer has to do for so many
different use cases now you can have an
agent and you can tell it hey this is
kind of what I'm trying to accomplish go
and bring me the best recognized
capabilities of products in this space
so that research becomes
hyperpersonalized
it becomes hyper tailored right you
become a segment of one and that's today
and we're only less than 3 years into
this era of generative AI can you
imagine and what it would be like in 3
years from now or 10 years from now.
>> I mean, when you talk about agent in
this kind of conversation that's going
on, it's I think our viewers and
listeners would be somewhat familiar
with this. They're going on to chat GPT
or they're going on to Google and
saying, "Hey, I need some new sneakers.
You know, what are the best sneakers out
there?" Right? And so it sounds like
you're taking it a next step there in
your mind that that would then help you
make the transaction, help you go down
that funnel to buying something.
>> Correct. And discovering it um and then
buying it. Some things you may want to
do yourself, something you may empower
your agent to do with permission. And
the way it will evolve and what it will
look like in the future is very hard for
us to to predict. Much like when the
first iPhone came out in 2007, we could
never have imagined uh how we would be
using it today. And it this world of
commerce powered by generative AI is
going to evolve even faster than that
because of the unique characteristics
and capabilities of these particular
types of models and technology.
But no matter what happens in the
future, we can say what will still be
the same. what we as consumers or as
merchants would still want 10 years from
now, which is we would want to make sure
our data is secure, that I am in control
of my data and what I allow it to do. I
want to make sure that the guardrails
that an agent can do on my behalf are
very clear to me and I'm able to manage
it. All those things are going to be
required in the future. Trust is the
underlying platform for all of this.
And as we were talking, that's kind of
how we're extending our technology to
empower and enable and catalyze uh this
beautiful new world of agentic commerce.
>> Trust has to be earned of course. Um you
know you made an announcement recently
of this thing called the trusted agent
protocol. Is that part of what you are
talking about here or and and if so why
does it matter? Trusted agent protocol.
>> Correct. Um indeed uh it's exactly what
we are trying to do. So there are
different um parts of this um platform
that um let me sort of unpack for you
the at the core
>> you could do it as an example when you
know okay so this agent's buying me a
bike what parts of the trusted agent
protocol should make me trust it
>> so the first thing is the merchant
should know that the agent is a
legitimate agent uh that they have been
cryptographically validated and verified
by some platform underneath. So it is
not a fraudulent or a scam uh that is
going on. So there is the proof that is
needed for that agent for the merchant
>> and this is a huge thing right because
we are coming out of we are currently in
the e-commerce world the internet has
made this possible and right now we are
known as shoppers we are known by some
identifiers right whether it's our cell
phone or email address or the tokens
that you provide through Visa right and
the idea that an AI buyer will be out
there how do we know it's real right
>> yeah that sounds [clears throat]
dangerous
>> that's right and that's why you need
some kind of a proof and a platform that
can validate that they are who they say
they are, authenticate and they're
authorized to do what they are trying to
do. So there's the authentication and
then there is the authorization. The
second thing is the merchant would need
to know that who is this agent
representing? Can you give me some
verification on who the consumer is or
the organization or the business that
you are actually representing? So first
you are legitimate and now let me know
who you are presenting uh so I can
recognize you and then as the payment is
happening you want to make sure that the
agent has the payment in a secure
encapsulation so that the payment
instrument and the credentials that are
being used to actually transfer the
money for the goods or the service are
being done uh with care and with
security. Uh and then finally it's based
on open standards. So uh you don't need
to have one specific agent for one type
of merchant or one country or one
segment and your agent and merchants can
interact in a very open manner uh for
for purchases.
>> I'm going to go back to that that thing
I keep hitting on. So when you see the
kind of the future of Agentic uh AI and
payments out there, how does that fit
into Visa's revenue model? how where how
are you making your money on that?
>> So the the way the underlying um
economics would work will probably
evolve and change over time. Uh as a
technologist though for me the core is
to make sure that the guardrails and the
security and the aspects around
compliance uh and personalization being
done very carefully with control and
privacy preserving frameworks. Um the
form it is occurring in is different but
the underlying platform has to provide
all of those.
So, it it's ensuring that the the the
payment rails go into whatever form of
of shopping that's occurring. That's
what what that's what you're concerned
about. The the business will follow into
into the new frontier, if you will.
>> That's right. You know, I do wonder. I
was talking to uh fintech consultant
Richard Cone who's a really smart guy
and he thinks there's a huge potential
here for Visa to grab a piece of the
adtech business from the likes of Google
that you know Google makes uh some makes
some money a lot of money from those
promotion fees right and Visa makes its
money from transaction fees but in a
world of agentic AI uh programmable
shoppers if you will is there room there
for kind of Visa to get into that space
into the adtech game. Is that out of the
realm of possibilities? Are you thinking
like that?
>> It's not something we have thought of uh
even remotely right now. uh our focus
really is about secure uh commerce and
and catalyzing this world of
hyperpersonalization or self-driving
commerce where like I was saying the
mundane aspects can be done by a
delegate uh and then things that one
enjoys and the happiness that one gets
in discovering things of one's interest
are even more in the future than today.
Given all you've described,
all of the new lines of business that
you're pushing into, all of the new
technologies that you're offering uh
merchants and consumers,
um it feels like this is a world where
Visa is even bigger and maybe you have
even more power. And of course, some
merchants famously already think Visa
holds too much power. And you know
whether or not you agree with that, how
do you strike a balance between what's
good for Visa and what is good for the
people you serve in particular
merchants?
>> Look, we're enabler, right? We are the
layer that enables uh commerce to take
place. Our focus has been to serve this
market. Um bringing the economies of
scale, bringing uh decades of expertise
and experience. Just in the last 5
years, you spent over 12 billion on
enhancing and making our networks
stronger and more robust. Um, ensuring
the resilience of the billions and
billions of transactions that we do
every year. Um, so that that focus of
ours that goal of ours continues to to
ensure that merchants, consumers and
economies thrive. You when when we do
this properly, it's good for merchants.
It's good for consumers. It's good for
economies. It's good for commerce. And
frankly, it's good for society.
>> We've talked about Visa as a tech
company here. And I think you've made
the case for why that's the why that is.
And we've seen the company evolve in
this last generation. With AI, there's
the potential to evolve even more. Uh
with these digital currencies that
you're uh working with, there's more
change coming. What is Visa going to be
for the next generation?
>> I think Visa will continue to be I hope
the uh the platform of trust because um
at the end of the day uh the future of
commerce, the future of AI will belong
not to the fastest but the most trusted.
And as AI rewires everything about
society and commerce is a part of that
that we can bring to it the same kind of
capabilities that we brought to the very
beginnings um of uh this ability to have
electronic payments to facetoface
commerce e-commerce in mobile commerce
and we bring that to this new wave of
agentic commerce. Well, I think that's a
good spot to leave it. Uh, sir, thank
you for coming on today. It was a great
conversation.
>> Thank you very much. My pleasure.